:toc: macro

= RFC 19: Random Beacon v2

:icons: font
:numbered:
toc::[]

== Background

The last release of the random beacon got its genesis Sep 16th 2020 and worked
until November 11th when it was stopped with a panic button as a result of an
unannounced https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/blob/main/docs/status-reports/2020-11-11-retro-geth-hardfork.adoc[Ethereum
hard fork].

For the time it was working, the beacon produced more than 1700 relay entries
and 70 groups.

Both on-chain and off-chain components proved to be successful but - just like
with any other product - some pain points were identified by the users.
The most problematic aspects were the construction of pricing scheme and too
aggressive timeouts. This RFC aims at describing these problems and proposing
changes that should make the beacon easier to operate and more consistent with
tBTC v2.

=== ETH-based pricing

Having reimbursements for various on-chain actions in ETH was a nice feature but
also complex in practice. Highly volatile gas price led to creating new groups
too often and gas price ceiling value was impossible to maintain up-to-date.
With too many groups being created, operators were spending too much ETH on
ticket submission and too low rewards were getting accumulated per group making
the reward withdrawal operation not profitable enough or not profitable at all
in the case of small stakers.

Extra submitter rewards added on top of reimbursements were hard to understand
for staking providers and calculating the providerâ€™s fee was complicated given
the non-reimbursable cost of ticket submission. Surprisingly, it is much easier
for staking providers to calculate their fee and costs in tBTC v1, having a
clean rule that no operations are reimbursed and the only reward their receive
is KEEP plus TBTC fees.

=== Aggressive timeouts

Relay entry timeouts were pretty aggressive. Set to 64x6 = 384 blocks, they were
giving about 1.5 hour to submit a relay entry before the minimum stake from each
group member was slashed. This timeout proved to be not enough to notify,
investigate, and fix a problem. Three groups were slashed in a row during the
November 11th incident that begun around 08:00 UTC, before any US-based
operators noticed the problem.


== Proposal

=== Fees and rewards

In tBTC v1, operators have to execute a lot of on-chain transactions per
deposit. Even though they are not reimbursed for on-chain actions and they
receive KEEP rewards and TBTC fees, this scheme proved to be successful and no
operators complained about it.

For v2 of the random beacon, all rewards and reimbursements should be done in T.
This scheme is compatible with tBTC v2 design where all rewards and
reimbursements are also done only in T.

Relay requester should provide a fee in T. The value of the fee is a governable
parameter. The fee is split into two parts. One part goes to a group creation
pool and another part is used as a reimbursement for the relay entry submitter.
What percent of the fee goes to the group creation pool is a governable
parameter.

Given that we want to incentivize to submit a relay entry as soon as possible
and that the price relation between gas price and T reimbursement for relay
entry submission is unknown at the moment the fee is set by the governance, we
should calculate a delay factor and delay penalty as in v1 of the random beacon.
The delay penalty should be subtracted from reimbursement and sent to the
sortition-pool-wide reward pool. The remaining part is sent to the relay entry
submitter. Over the course 64x6 blocks, reimbursement goes to zero. On-chain we
are not going to enforce any order of submitters but off-chain clients should
agree to the order where the member with index 1 has 6 blocks to submit, after 6
blocks member with index 2 tries to submit, after 12 blocks member with index 3
tries to submit and so forth.

Anyone should be able to submit a transaction creating a new group and this
action should be detached from relay entry submission. The submitter of this
transaction receives a part of the group creation pool and the remaining part
should be reserved for DKG result submitter as reimbursement for future
transaction. What percentage of the pool goes where is a governable parameter
and should be determined based on the gas cost of the two transactions.

To make this scheme works both relay entry and DKG result submission
transactions need to have predictable gas cost. Although it is guaranteed for
the latter, the former, in v1 of the beacon, depends on the gas cost of
executing a callback and needs to be optimized.

T rewards will be distributed continuously to all operators in the beacon
sortition pool, just like in the case of tBTC v2.

=== Callbacks

In v1 of the random beacon, a callback is executed in the same transaction in
which relay entry is submitted with a gas limit of 2M. This allows applications
using the random beacon to avoid an additional complexity at their end but comes
at the cost of random beacon operators who need to have enough ETH on their
balance. This approach is not compatible with the idea that all rewards will be
solely in T given that it is impossible to establish the cost of executing a
callback in T.

Instead of executing any callback in the same transaction in which relay entry
is submitted, we can assume that only the simplest callbacks are allowed, up to
some gas limit set by the governance. Applications wanting to use a relay entry
should submit another transaction using the relay entry value previously set by
the random beacon. They should also employ an additional security check making
sure the entry submitted is only valid for a certain number of blocks to avoid
situation when relay entry beacon transaction and application-specific
transaction are executed far from each other.

On the example of tBTC v2, random beacon transaction submitting relay entry
would only execute a simple callback setting the value of the entry on wallet
factory, and another transaction executed on tBTC v2 side to the wallet factory,
would use the entry for sortition.

The fact the full - even the most complex - callback is executed in the same
transaction in which the relay entry is submitted gives an impression of better
security. This impression is false though, given that the entry to be submitted
is visible in the mempool and smart attackers can have their transactions mined
faster to - for example - put the sortition pool in the desired state for the
new entry. This issue needs to be solved on the sortition pool side with
initiation time for new operators in the pool.

=== Group creation

As mentioned in the section about fees and rewards, anyone should be able to
submit a transaction to create a new group and we should switch from a
ticket-based approach to sortition pools. Sortition pool should weigh operators
by stake and allow to select the same operator multiple times. DKG protocol
should execute in the same way as for v1 and inactive/disqualified members
should be marked and kicked out of the sortition pool losing their rewards.

=== Timeouts

We should extend the timeout for submitting relay entry to give operators more
time to react. After 64x6 blocks, relay entry submission reward goes to 0. From
this point, all operators in the group should start bleeding and losing their
stake. The bleeding should increase linearly from 0 to the minimum stake per
operator over the course of 48 hours. Both the initial and hard timeout should
be governable parameters.

=== Reduced complexity of contract relationships

With all changes implemented as above, we need to answer the question if the
service contract is still needed and whether we should not implement a simple
beacon upgradeability scheme in the application using the beacon. In v1, the
service contract takes care of executing the callback and reimbursing the
operator. It also estimates entry fee, and determines if it is possible to
create a new group on the most recent operator contract. All these
functionalities, needed in v1, are simplified in this RFC so the service
contract may no longer be needed, and removing it from the execution path could
save some gas.